well I want to thank everyone for taking
time out of the busy afternoon to attend
the directory services talk my name is
David O'Rourke and we'll be going into
more detail about directory services
which if some of you were in the Mac
os10 server presentation you might have
heard a little bit more about I'll be
talking and later on we'll be inviting
up a co-worker of mine Jason Townsend
who will give you a little more detail
on developing a directory plugin and a
demo what we're going to cover today is
what are directory services how are we
using directory services in Apple
software
what are the api's look like what's
plug-in development look like we'll give
you a little demo and then hopefully
cover some questions and answers at the
end of the session the concept of
directory services arose about three
years ago when my management asked me to
figure out what Apple's directory story
was moving forward for Mac OS 10 server
and one of the key pieces of feedback we
had from our customers was they no
longer wanted to use just an apple
proprietary database like users and
groups they wanted at least the option
to integrate with an existing or perhaps
a proprietary directory system so the
concept is relatively simple allow Apple
software to use customer data the
implementation all of us are engineers
in the room or have seen this engineers
drop boxes is fairly straightforward
we're going to build an abstraction API
we're gonna put apple services on top of
that abstraction and that abstraction
will grant access to customer data the
architecture a little more fleshed out
we have Apple software based on
directory services we have developers
software that could be based on
directory services and we provide
plug-ins to to directory services that
apple provides the primary directory
service in Mac OS 10 is net info and
that's our default plugin we also
provide read-only access to LDAP v2 and
part of the reason some of you are in
the audience hopefully so that you can
develop a directory access plugin for a
directory service that you can make
money on or possibly help your site the
runtime of the API leverages the Mac
os10 architecture a directory service
client using directory service API calls
into a Mac os10 framework that framework
uses mock IPC to communicate with
the daemon then talks to plugins to
handle various requests the reply comes
back up through mock IPC it's very
secure and leverages the Michaelis 10
architecture status since last year I've
given this talk now I think this is my
third year up on stage talking about
this so it'll be familiar if you were
here the previous couple years hopefully
this is new for some of you what have we
done since last year the directory
access api's are included in Mac OS 10
desktop this is not a server only
technology you can use directory
services in the desktop they are located
in system library frameworks directory
service framework the API manifests
itself in five C header files you know
going over header files is laborious and
sometimes boring so they're there I'd
encourage you to review them the
directory plugin api SAR included in
functional in the desktop and the server
so this is something you can use in
either location although the server
leverages them more heavily than the
desktop does there's also an SDK and the
term SDKs a little over overused what we
have is a collection of some sample code
and some helper code that's available
from Tom wire everything you need to
actually develop and use directory
services is already in Mac OS 10 with
developer tools we are writing some
sample code so the SDK includes the
sample code and the documentation in one
convenient place what's new since last
year's we have the directory setup
application which we only alluded to
last year you'll be getting a demo of
that later we have a search policy we
received some feedback directory
services embodies the concept of a
search policy for authentication where
what directories do we look into when
the OS wants to authenticate a user
we've also added a contact search policy
which we think could be integrated into
pins or email clients and mass search
policies configured separately and could
search public databases and it provides
a lightweight way for you to provide a
fine user functionality and your
applications we will also be releasing
by the SDK ad S wrappers which is some
C++ sample code that was developed
inside of the group that makes it a
little easier to approach the directory
service api's so all of that will be
bundled up and made available contact
home wire and I think we'll post it to
the website when we talk ok
what is directory setup well directory
service has come out of the box and the
first thing you need to know is if
you're using net info you don't need to
do
it just works out of the box no one
needs to visit directory set up no one
needs to modify anything directory set
up is for those clients that wish to use
a directory other than net info and
directory set up allows you to control
what directory systems Mac os10
interacts with it's located in
applications utilities you can enable
and disable individual directory plugins
right now there's only two the net info
in the LDAP if third parties add more
this is where using as a system
administrator return those third party
plugins on or off and it also provides
the ability for you to put up your own
human interface for configuring your
plugin you'll see more about that later
and I believe after this I have a sample
screenshot yes if you look at the screen
you this is a screenshot for Mac OS 10
the lock is in the lower left hand
corner if this is a secure thing only
the system administrator can change
these settings and we provide the two
standard plugins net info and LDAP if
you wrote a third party plug-in or
developed a plug-in it would be listed
here the user could select your plug-in
and click on the configure button there
in the bottom center and that would
launch a human interface or Coco or
carbon application that you wrote which
puts up your own user interface for
configuring your plug-in the authentic
the three tabs across the top of
services authentication and contacts the
services are for controlling the plugins
authentication controls the
authentication search policy and
contacts allows the user to configure
the contacts search policy what are the
API is include they include full
read/write capabilities you can do if
your directory plug-in supports
read/write you can do anything with a
particular directory through these API
smackle is ten servers administration
software is based on these API for
reading and writing that info the API
offers the notion of simple complex and
custom authentication methods proof of
identity so if you have a custom
authentication method that your
particular directory system supports you
can publish it and come up with a scheme
that clients could use it the directory
API is our standard C API and they're
accessible from any runtime other than
classic on Mac OS 10 so a mock Oh binary
a cocoa app a carbon app we have a
variety of applications calling
directory services we have the Mac OS 10
server administration software which is
which is a carbon application the
directory set up calls directory API so
that's a mock
binary cocoa application and directory
services calls itself which is running
more at the POSIX layer so we're fairly
confident you can call the directory
service API from pretty much anywhere
except classic on Mac OS 10 part of the
directory services provides an
abstraction for accessing it also
provides an abstraction for the data and
this is where we get some of the most
questions so this year we've added this
slide hopefully we'll do more next year
but the abstraction that directory
service presents as a notion of
directory nodes at the top level and
those are groups or collections of data
if if you had multiple LDAP servers
configured each one would manifest
itself as a single directory node in the
directory service abstraction API
records come underneath nodes records
are contained within nodes that consists
of names and types attribute types with
the data and attribute values come under
attribute type so we're gonna go into
that more detail in the next slide so
directory nodes each directory node is
published by a plug-in and a single
plugin a plugin can register 0 or more
nodes you as a plug-in developer can
register as many directory nodes as you
want that you want to grant clients
access to hopefully you're matching that
to some reality of some kind but when
when someone opens the directory node
using the directory service API it will
dispatch to your plug-in and you will
then be responsible for all calls
regarding that directory node API calls
to access directory nodes from a client
level RDS opened ur node IDs get their
node lists find their nodes and closed
or notes they're relatively
straightforward so use an API client if
you wanted to work with a particular
LDAP directory node you would call open
their node and now you're talking to an
LDAP server the important point is is it
doesn't matter whether you're talking to
an LDAP server an ActiveX server or a
net info server open der node group gets
you the session with that directory
server regardless of what the protocol
is an example path of a directory node
would be slash LDAP v2 slash LDAP
company.com that's how we configure our
LDAP sessions so they are multi path and
they are hierarchical so a directory
plug-in can represent a hierarchical
directory system into directory services
records records reside in directory
notes they consist of at least one name
and exactly one type the record cannot
simultaneously be a user and a group
maybe it can in some directories but not
in the directory service abstraction
examples of a record name would be John
Smith J Smith the important thing is the
at least one name directory services
supports the notion of multiple names
per record and a sample record type is
KD s standard record type users we have
standard types to find for obvious
record types users groups printers Athey
servers web servers whatever you need to
access can be listed inside of a
directory new API calls to access
records RDS open record just get record
lists d/s create record and DEA's closed
record there are more than that but
that's some samples attribute types
attribute types are contained within
records and these are essentially the
descriptors of what type of data you're
fetching these are a UID home directory
email address phone number any type of
data is represented as an attribute type
they're contained within records each
record can contain 0 or each attribute
type can contain 0 or more values an
example attribute types are K DSN add or
record name K DSN adder home directory
and KD s1 add or password the naming
convention in the API is consistent the
KD s in attribute record name is that
means that typically that's a multi
value there are in instances of a record
name the KD s one attribute password is
that means in general you can expect
that that attribute type would only have
one value this is not enforced it's just
it's it's it should help you as a
plug-in developer and help you as a
client know how many different pieces of
data to expect for a particular
attribute type API calls use to access
attribute types or get attribute entry
get at get record attribute info there
are more than that attribute values
these are the actual blobs of data once
once you get down through the hierarchy
you've opened your directory node you've
opened your record you found the
attribute type you're interested the
phone number where do I get the list of
values to each instance of a phone
number those are attribute values
attribute values are contained within
the attribute type attribute values
contain the raw data specified by the
attribute type again the attribute type
can lead you into expecting a certain
type of data and format the API calls
use to access attribute values or des
kit attribute value DES get record
attribute value by index and DES get
record attribute value by ID these are
all useful
Nixon had to be used in all of our
software come see me more if you want to
know the differences between those types
of attributes in particular directory
services is data agnostic we are we
treat all attribute values as binary
blobs if your directory is capable of
storing binary data we'll just pass it
right on through to your plugin if your
directory is incapable of storing binary
data it would be up to the plugin to
make some sort of modification to the
data before it's stored it if it
received binary data directory services
is data agnostic although we provide the
tools for you to discover and utilize
the data apple adoption we're not just
standing up here saying third party
should adopt this API because it's a
good idea we're using this in our server
software and if any of you have helped
server software I think you'll agree
with me it's a very demanding
development environment we have put our
server software and qualified our server
software on top of this architecture
including admin GUI all the way down to
high performance file servers so we
believe the architecture works and we
believe it will work for you
administration uses it you built a full
GUI on top of it and the apple server
software products are based on third
party enhancements or replacements of
directory plugins can leverage apples
directory by these API is that next I
mean I'd like to spend a little bit of
time on there's two ways for you to
leverage apples investment in this API
the first way is that if you have a
server piece of server software that
needs users and groups or attribute data
you no longer have to write your own
administration software for the user to
set up and administer that because you
can just sit on directory services and
use Mac os10 server administration to
create all of your data and you'll get
access to it via directory services so
you don't have to do your own
administration software for simpler
applications the other way you can
leverage apples investment is say you
want to use all of apples great server
software but you have a directory you
want it to use you can write one plug-in
and pull the entire suite of direct of
server software on to your directory so
there's really a lot of leverage to be
had in these api's both at the top level
and at the low level API model usage the
general model is that this allows why
directory setup and this architecture
allows apple software to be configured
to use directory of customers choice we
only
ask for standard record types in their
attributes so standard record types and
attributes are documented in the
directory services and server
documentation this enables Apple and
third-party software to access any
directory system by now you should
understand that customers configure
directory access via the search policy
and directory setup data accessed by OS
and applications what type of data is
typically requested by the server
software and by the desktop software
well obviously users and groups is a big
winner but the Mac OS 10 desktop also
requests mount information for specific
file systems NFS an AFP home directory
information and in some cases host
information comes out of net info or
could come out of LDAP by this
architecture and that would be host name
and IP address the previous Mac OS 10
server session if you weren't there I
recommend you get the tape Greg Vaughn
covered the issue that a lot of the
configuration information in Mac OS 10
that normally stored in /se on UNIX has
been migrated to net info well that's an
accurate and an inaccurate statement
olsommer really was been migrated to his
directory services so now information or
configure information stored in Mac OS
10 are required by Mac O's 10 can be
accessed by a directory services Apple
plugin usage and development apples
develop three basic access plug-ins
we've developed net info that's our our
primary and default directory system
LDAP be to read-only for Internet
connectivity we get a lot of mileage out
of the LDAP v2 we can talk to Active
Directory we can talk to Novell talk to
open LDAP and conduct I planet so if you
can find an LDAP server to access your
data you can get directory services to
access the data as well we also
implemented the search policy as the
directory services plug-in that's
another thing that gives us a lot of
confidence in this architecture we use
the owner the architecture to solve our
own problems Apple software products
being tested with these plugins so if
you're developing a plug-in and you can
make your plug-in behave like any one of
these plugins there's a very good chance
that it will work on modified apple
desktop and server software uses the
architecture to provide customer
directory flexibility and we're really
looking for developer plug-ins if you
want to develop a plug-in for directory
services contact tom
contact me please get to us you're gonna
need some help but we're gonna provide
it for you and hopefully it'll be pretty
simple at this time I'd like to invite
Jason Townsend up on stage he's gonna go
into some of the details of what it
takes to develop a directory plugin and
I'll be back later for a wrap-up in QA
Thanks so I'm gonna talk about directory
plugins and the main points we're gonna
talk about are the structure how do you
test your plugin once you've got it up
and running and then a little more
technical what what are the entry points
and callbacks that you're interested in
as a directory services plugin so
plugins are dynamically loaded code
modules they're actually CF plugins so
we use core foundations CF load function
to load them and you have to provide a
set of entry points we'll go into detail
on what each of those is later and then
you can call back into directory
services to do various things like
primarily registering the nodes that
you're going to provide service on so
where does your plug-in live in the
system all of the plugins that apple
provides are stored inside the directory
service framework with that big long
nasty path you see at the top there but
that is generally considered the place
for for only apple plugins for your
third party plugins you should put them
in library directory services plugins
and that's guaranteed to be a writable
part of the file system for root and
that's where we will load plugins from
the other thing to keep in mind is you
need to put the dot d s plug extension
on your bundle so that directory service
daemon will load it here's an example
plug-in bundle you don't really need to
worry too much about this if you use
project builder it's just a matter of
creating a CF plug-in and it will deal
with all the packaging issues for you
the main thing you need to be concerned
about is the the plist file which has
some of the metadata
we use to to load your plugin and also
to determine what app we should use to
configure your plug-in when you're when
you're showing up in directory setup and
the user needs to configure how your
plugin works so we have some sample code
we've talked about before that is sort
of a starting point for you with your
plugin and it shows you stubs that you
would use for all the API calls so
basically all you need to do is fill in
the functionality that you're providing
and we handle setting up all of the the
callbacks and show you how to use those
as well so configuring your plug-in
there's two keys in your plist file that
are important for you to set up for your
your plugin to be configure configurable
in directory setup the first one is a CF
bundle configure veil and the second is
CF bundle config file so each of them is
optional basically what will happen if
for example you just want to provide a
text file you can provide only the CF
bundle config file key and we will just
launch that text file with the default
text editor probably text edit
alternately you could have an
application that you launch and just
provide CF bundle config avail if you
provide both then we will launch the
application you specify with the file
you specify and all this happens when
your plugin is selected in directory
setup and you click the configure button
then we do this launching as appropriate
so once you've got your plugin up and
running how do you test it there is code
on the system a lot of code on on Mac OS
10 server and even personal file showing
on on 10 desktop uses directory services
extensively but it's probably better to
start out a little bit oh sorry wrong
slide so first you got a copy you're
plugging in to the the appropriate
location in library directory services
plugins the other point to keep in mind
is that you need to kill and restart the
directory service process this is a
daemon process
there's no GUI per se for it so the
easiest way to do this is just
use the terminal and kill and restart it
and you need to be route in order to do
that because directory service needs to
run as route to access it's it's log
files and such then you can take a look
at the log file and library logs to see
that your plugin loaded successfully and
we keep other logging information in
there so what I was getting into before
I was getting a little bit ahead of
myself when you're testing your plugin
it's better instead of throwing a full
client at it to begin with it's better
to actually control the client side
yourself as well and use the API so that
you've provided so you can test a subset
of the directory service API that you've
created to that point for example you
can leave out all of the the right
portions and just test that you can find
a user with get record list and you can
you can do a deist dune or node or node
off to authenticate that user rather
than having to support all the functions
that that a client would use because
sometimes even for you know a fairly
simple operation there might be api's in
there that you haven't implemented yet
so just because things don't work right
off the bat doesn't mean that you
haven't done things right you just need
to add all of the appropriate calls in
so we have a sample tool that has these
these calls in there called es test tool
that comes with our our sdk sample code
and you can easily modify that or use
what's already there it does simple
things like look for a user create a
user and and so on and you could also
develop your own test tool especially if
your plugin is going to provide specific
functionality that that's outside of the
standard like custom off methods then
you might want to just develop your own
tool to test those things out so what
are the the entry points we have
validate this is called once when your
plugin is loaded the primary purpose of
that is to provide a token to your
plugin that you can use later and all of
your callbacks so that allows us to
recognize which plugin is calling back
into directory services we call
initialize on your plugin after all the
plugins have load
this is the point where you would
probably load up your config file or do
any startup initialization like that
establish any any persistent network
connections that you might need and so
on set plug-in state is called when your
plugin is enabled or disabled from
directory set up and that'll tell you ok
your plugin is now inactive you can go
ahead and and close down any resources
that you're using that you don't need
anymore or bring them back online if
you've been reactivated process requests
this is where the bulk of the work is
you can probably implement all these
other functions you know in a couple
hours really easily and we've got you
know sample implementations in our in
our sample code but process request is
where all the API calls come through so
essentially that's going to look like a
big switch statement that looks at what
the actual request was and then based on
that you'll probably hand it off to
another function - to deal with the
particular request that's coming through
and we're just stuffing all the
parameters that are coming in into a big
struct that you need to interpret and
finally shutdown is called just before
directory services shuts down so again
another another time to release any
resources that you're using before the
directory service process goes away or
save any any changes that you might need
to save so the other half of it is the
callbacks
we have des register node which is how
you publish your nodes and the guideline
that we suggest you follow is to prefix
the name of your node with your plugins
name so the reason for this is that when
a client makes an ADD es open door node
call we don't know which plugin to use
for that so if the name starts with the
name of one of the plugins so for
example slash net info / LDAP B - are
the plugins that we have then we can
directly go to that plug-in out of our
table and dispatch directly to you if
you give it some other name of course
there's a possibility of collisions but
the other thing is we have to scan
through the list of plugins to find one
that might handle
and depending upon what what operations
the plugins do to handle open-door node
it can be less efficient es unregister
node is used when you want to take a
node out of the list that you're no
longer providing service on so if that
your config file changed and that that
LDAP server is no longer there you would
use that function and then we have D s
debug log to log debugging information
that's an ADA when you're when you're
developing your plugin so as I mentioned
before the directory service daemon runs
as a root process and your plugin is
considered a trusted entity so you
really have to use your power wisely
it's not it's not quite as bad as
working with the kernel but you can
really do a lot of damage if you don't
know what you're doing is root so you
need to make sure that you limit your
access to the system to only what you
need and also don't do anything on
behalf of a client that that you're
expecting the system to prevent you from
doing so in other words you're running
in a UID 0 process so anything you try
to do will probably succeed so if you
want to provide any kind of security
then you need to be aware of that in
your plugin and as I said before also
you need to be logged in as root or at
least have a root shell available to be
able to develop a plugin so this means
on Mac OS 10 desktop that you'll have to
go into net info manager and enable root
to get access to it or use sudo or other
tools like that we also restrict the the
plug-in directory library directory
services plugins to only root access so
this slide is a little bit more
information probably more helpful to you
as a directory services client but it's
also applicable for plugins you've
probably heard a lot at the conference
about the performance tools and leaks
and things like that and it's I can't
stress enough that's it's very important
on Mac OS 10 that you you clean up what
you use because if you don't
you're gonna make the Machine swap at
some point and then your performance
because it goes down the toilet so
specific to directory services you need
to use clothes and D Alec calls to clean
things up when you're done with them so
clothes is generally for references and
references are representing memory
that's allocated in the directory
service daemon so even if you're using
malloc debug you won't see these leaks
so it's very important that you you look
at take a look at the sample code you
can see which functions correspond but
there it's not just the open calls that
you need to close on there are some
other calls that allocate references
particularly when you're parsing a
buffer coming back from directory
services that you need to close and if
you don't close it means that the memory
footprint will be increased until your
your app closes down directory services
completely then the d alec calls you
free memory basically structures that
that our framework is allocating for you
so those would show up if you're leaking
those those would show up in malloc
debug for example and again a lot of
those are allocated with alec calls but
there are other ones that allocate
structures like get record entry for
example so you need to be aware of that
too another one is release continued
data this one is used when you're you're
making a directory service call that
returns a buffer to you but we can't fit
all the data in one buffer so we'll fill
the buffer and then give you a continue
data for the next time around so you can
get everything you need out of the
buffer then make the call again with the
continue data and go on and get a chain
of responses so that's the normal the
normal sequence of events if you don't
want to do that then call release
continue data after you've backed out of
that that multi-step operation and that
will allow us to free the memory on in
the directory service daemon that's
being used for that so again take a look
at the sample code on this and that will
help you see where the cleanup calls
need to correspond and D s wrappers is a
good a good example of what you need to
do to clean up directory service
structures so again if you if you're
interested in plug-in development please
talk to developer relations
we can we can help you with this and and
we want to help you with that and also
take a look at the API and plugin
documentation it's actually included
with the ten developer tools so if
you've installed ten developer tools
it's on your hard disk already take a
look at it it's very helpful in
understanding the API and we've got all
the all the constants and functions in
there that you need also if you're going
to develop a plugin you should look at
our API and decide how are you going to
map our abstraction onto your directory
system so what is a node in your
directory system what is a record and so
on alright so now we're going to have a
demo of a directory setup so can we
switch over to demo one please
no it's asleep
we switched the demo one instead of two
yes excellent thank you okay so I have
here actually Mac OS 10 server on this
machine but as we said before directory
setup is is also part of of Mac OS 10
desktop so let's take a look at
directory setup you saw the screenshot
earlier we basically would come up
showing you the list of plugins and also
you notice that the interface came up
locked so this means that I need to
click the lock button to unlock it
because what we're doing here in
directory setup is actually changing who
can login to the system so we really
don't want anyone doing that other than
an administrator so now that I've
unlocked it I can make changes we have
the ability to configure net info if you
want to bind to a net info parent or
just use the local right now we're just
using local alright let's take a look at
LDAP I showed you this was working for
me before the before the session started
so if you can figure LDAP you get a list
of LDAP servers and we can go ahead and
add a new server basically what we do
here is we specify what mappings we want
to use so and also what the IP address
is and so on so say test LDAP server and
you can put in an IP address or a domain
name in the that field so I'll just put
in a an IP address
then we need to set up the mappings that
we're going to use for our record types
and our attribute types and this is kind
of similar to the way that the tcp
control panel works or the network setup
works basically each line of this write
text box represents one mapping but you
can have multiple lines so you can map
things to more than one search base for
the record types we're using search
bases as our mapping so you can change
these to whatever you want for the
purposes of just getting the file server
working we really only need to worry
about users mapping and we can leave the
others there at their default or delete
them it doesn't matter they're not
actually necessary
we also document in the ten server
documentation for particular services
what you would need to map in directory
setup to use that service with LDAP so
then on the data or attribute types
again we have a list of our standard
types and you can map those to the types
and LDAP that you want to use and again
it's multiple mapping so each line is
one mapping so I could do for example
UID and CN for record name and then for
real name I could do UID so actually I
really wanted to do CN so that's that's
common name it's old absolute deviation
of a common name then password if you're
using using open LDAP for example or
some LDAP server that has a krip pass
where it's stored in it then we can use
that in the password mapping and
actually do a crypt off without sending
a clear text passwords out over the
network so if your LDAP server has a
correct password stored for its users
it's a good idea to map that if you
don't then we can still do all that bind
but the security is better if you're
using crypt then the final tab here is
access which allows you to configure
whether you want to use anonymous access
to talk to the LDAP server
or specify a distinguished name and
password if you need to bind to the
server to do anything with it
then this is important to setup so for
example with Active Directory you would
need to use this you can also specify
the timeouts that you're going to use
and the port number if you're using a
non-standard port and then once you've
set up that LDAP server it shows up in
your list you can enable it when we see
if I can bring up a server admin to show
you some more of what what mackelson
server is doing with directory services
all right so the this is the server
admin for Mac OS 10 server might look
slightly familiar to you if you've
worked with apple sure I P recent
versions so the primary integration I
wanted to show you is in users and
groups so all of the users in groups
information is is access through
directory services and when we're
populating the local net info database
we use directory services to put that
information in so if I create a user for
example then that would be using
directory service calls to set the
password to set all the attributes that
our services need to be in there and so
on so and now once I've created a user
there again it's available to all the
services the other thing we have in in
users and groups is the ability to use
to search on the search path for example
so now that I've added that user I can
see that they are actually are on the
search path okay so so basically this
this just illustrates that the directory
service API is provide everything you
need even to do a full GUI like this and
and both create the data and access it
although you know for a directory
services clients you probably would
mostly be interested in just getting at
the user names and doing authentication
but you can also you can also populate
the database too if you need to so I
think I'll go ahead and stop there since
directory setup doesn't seem to be happy
today and I'll go ahead and turn it back
over to David work to finish up
my god I think we took a risk booting
off the firewire drive and for those of
you know it's not technically supported
that ends the demo we're gonna do a
wrap-up whoops I have this upside down
directory services wrap-up so directory
services and other after technologies
this is a lower-level technology but it
can be used to build some high-level
solutions but it complements other
technologies and it provides common
framework for higher level software to
access directory data another compliment
to this is the NSL talk and network
service location I'd recommend highly
that you all tend that tomorrow if
you're interested in directory services
there's some exciting integration going
on there the opportunities for
developers are to directory enable your
client software as you saw you could use
the Mac OS 10 server administration to
populate a local net info database and
then using the directory API your
application would inherit all the users
set up by Mac OS 10 server
administration if the user had
configured the search policy to access
LDAP your application would access LDAP
so there's a lot of benefit in you
enabling that in addition you could
provide alternatives to Apple software
with by either providing a competing web
server or competing file server but
still leverage the technology the setup
technology and you can provide value by
adding a directory plug-in directory
plugin is clearly an opportunity we're
actively looking for anybody willing to
develop it to a directory plug-in we
think there's opportunities here for
people to either promote their own
directory service or to access existing
infrastructure and again the radbend
client or the admin the Mac os10 server
administration client uses directory
services if your plugin is read/write
there's there's integration there that
i'm radmann our Mac OS 10
administration's offer could actually be
used to set up users in your directory
so the key messages is we're using this
architecture for our own software the
directory service api's brings directory
access to all of apple software platform
customers are leveraging this API we
already have some customers using LDAP
where there's some very large
installations there's one customer in
particular has over two million users in
an LDAP server they took the MCOs Tim
server package unpacked it configured
their LDAP server end directory set up
added it to the search policy and
promptly logged on as any one of those
users that they actually knew the
password of and so opportunities exists
for you to base your application on
directory services or develop a plugin
double the opportunity you can do your
product on the high level you can do it
at the low level or both resources
directory service plugin and API
documentation on the developer CD there
Thomas wires the developer relations he
has access to all the sample code that
we've referred to and of course the
Apple Developer connection
you